		   Notes on laser cutter interviews


			   == Interview 1 ==

User is a young maker of physical stuff and has a background in
architecture and product design/development. Has been doing rapid fab
prototyping and dev for about 3 years.

Primarily uses Rhino for 2D and 3D modeling projects. Will use
Illustrator/Photoshop to do 'finished' drawings destined for client
consumption (renderings and so on). He has a lot of experience making
physical things so he is skilled in finding problems in a design based
on a sketch, and sometimes doesn't need to even make a drawing to
reason about how something will (or won't) work.

Observations and "Problems" faced by this user: (scare quotes because
some are not so much 'problems' as they are things that seemed
inefficient to me)

* Begin design task at 9:20, done at 20:00 (total: 10:40 or so, with
  some side conversation in the middle. A fairly fast process)

* Material properties mattered very early on, particularly for getting
  some dimensions correct.

* It seemed to be important to have the scale set properly at the
  beginning.

* Would not model many things in 3D because it is easy enough to do in
  2D and just know how they go together. Exceptions are when things
  are bent or join together at weird angles.

* Given the sketch the user could immediately specify many dimensions,
  but some were missing so he had to 'rough it'. He ended up using
  existing geometry (whose dimensions were specified) to guide
  placement of the things he was estimating. E.g. placing the notch
  directly below the corner above. The corner served as an anchor.

* Rhino lets you enter commands by typing their names (sort of like a
  command line). 

* Used construction lines and existing geometry as
  references. Frequetly used structured editing abilities to do things
  like make two oddly-angled lines parallel, or to nudge a boundary by
  X millimeters. He would commononly make too many lines and erase
  them later. This was a repeated tactic.

* Constantly zooming in to adjust geometry and zooming out to see if
  it looks ok.

* Creating the cutfile was something of an art: he made an artificial
  cut bed by drawing a 16"x24" rectangle (the size of the physical
  laser cutter bed). Then he copied the part and pasted/rotated/moved
  the copies inside the rectangle and tried to use the material
  efficiently by packing them tightly.

* When starting a new laser cutter project, his first step was to
  measure the physical thing the new project wil fit on. This involved
  a quick sketch and writing down the numeric dimensions.

* Within the tool, modal issues caused minor problems. At one point,
  he was trying to get the mouse to snap to a certain point but it
  wouldn't until he noticed he had to enter a mode. This wasn't that
  time consuming, but it was distracting.

* When making a curve, he used a Bezier spline tool and fidgeted
  around a bit to get it looking correctly.

* He characterizes his process as involving the following:

	  Thinking <--> Sketching <--> Modeling <--> Making

  While the project starts with thinking and ends with making, it is
  fully possible and likely that the designer's attention can flip
  between any of these processes as work goes on. For example, there's
  a lot of thinking done before sketching, though sketching nicely
  complements thinking. And the designer might make a first physical
  version with the understanding that errors and issues will be found,
  which fuels additional thinking/sketching/modeling.


			  == Interview 2 ==

Background in electrical engineering, interests in industrial
design. Learned Alias and SolidWorks a few years ago to get into
industrial.

Process is to sketch and model and make and iterate on that. He keeps
lots of sketches, from the very early rough stuff, through later
copies that include details and annotations and a bit of shading. He
also makes externally-oriented renderings that look very nice and are
beyond what you would think of as sketches (e.g. the class final
drawing with a lot of attention to shading and esthetics).

For very precise stuff he won't necessarily sketch, because adding
that in the drawing doesn't help. He will instead make things in
Illustrator and laser cut them, see what should be changed, and update
the Illustrator file. 

The main purpose of his projects are not the engineering concerns that
occupy so much of his time. 

* Used copy/paste to make repeated items. But this presents problems:
  "Illustrator is kind of dumb, because if I want to change [all these
  squares] I have to redo all of them."

* "Illustrator is very easy and very fast", but didn't acknowledge its
  shortcomings. (I wonder if it is a pattern to not notice a tool's
  flaws if they have no other options)

* some complex joints are "too complicated for mental thinking",
  e.g. the designer can't just visualize how things should be without
  using a tool that supports 3D arrangements. Complex things would
  require multiple prints where the designer could see what was wrong,
  fix it, and try again.

* process would involve "pencil sketching" and "hardware
  sketching". Pencil sketches are as you would imagine, just rough
  drawings of various ideas, and are incomplete. Hardware sketching is
  gluing/screwing/taping together bits of material to "explore the
  mechanism". He can't think about some mechanisms by sketching it
  (presumably because their form changes as you interact with it), but
  the physical hardware sketch allows you to manipulate it and see
  functional or mechanical problems and possibilities.

* Doing a round of fabrication (laser cut/3D printer) has a cost in
  money and time. If it is inexpensive (like a laser cutter project
  with wood) it is easy to just cut a rough version, see what it is
  about, change the model, and cut it again. It is fast and relatively
  cheap. But with 3D printers, it takes a long time (overnight 3D
  prints) and is expensive (a one inch cube is on the order of $20
  worth of material).

* Starting design task at 23:00

  - set the unit type to centimeters
  
  - made ellipse (circle) with 6.44cm diameter (wrong size)

  - uses simple geometric elements like circles/rectangles and
    composites them using the path finder tool.

  - made half-circle using full circle and a rectangle overlapped, and
    kept the lower half of the circle.

  - made main body out of a rectangle and moved the upper points
    inwards. changes his mind and did the left half first.

  - little rectangle, eyeballing it over the main part, and composites
    to form the notch.

  - trying to do something and Illustrator is not doing what he
    expects, so he spends a minute or two selecting stuff, rearranging
    the z-positions, and trying it, and hitting ^Z to undo when it
    doesn't work.

  - copied left half, pasted it, and reflected it horizontally. moved
    it up against the other half and formed a complete path.

  - hit control z a dozen or two times to try something again, because
    the approach he had been taking wasn't going to work out for some
    reason (the distance between notches was the problem).

  - made a measuring rectangle that is 20cm wide, and moved it to the
    screen so he could ensure the notches are the right distance
    apart. This 20cm rectangle was temporary geometry and only served
    as a measuring stick. he deleted it after using it.

  - able to enter numeric values as expressions (e.g. "7+6.44")

  - eyeballing alignment/centering. Illustrator helps by showing hints
    about when things are aligned.

  - sometimes Illustrator doesn't visually reflect subtle
    strangeness. For example a straight line is actually composed of
    three sub-segments that are all on the same line. He didn't know
    this was the case until he tried to manipulate the line and foudn
    it was in three pieces so he had to fix this before moving on.

  - Occasionally there's something unclear and he has to hunt around
    to fix some geometric issue.

  - made another 20cm measuring stick

  - discovered that the circle was half the size it needed to be, so
    he made a new circle of the correct size.

  - made a rectangle to create the cable shaft, centered it, made a path

  - added smaller rectangles to the sides of the cable shaft rect and
    brought the top left over so it was just a
    triangle. copy/paste/reflect/move to other side, and make a path.

  - Done at 43:00 (total time: 20:00, not a lot of conversation in the
    middle. seemed to take a while, esp. compared to interview 1)

  - "My way is a little bit stupid. It takes a long time, it's longer,
    I guess. There must be an easier way. But this is usually how I
    make things for that. I like the path finder a lot." [the
    pathfinder] "when I have two shapes and i want to unite them, it
    is very helpful. And also the backtracker."

  - He used the rectangle measuring stick like 5 times. "The ruler is
    not that useful because it only tells you the information here (on
    screen)" and you have to remember what it says.


			  == Interview 3 ==

* Has only made one real project (did a practice project and then a
  'real' one). This was a class project aimed at learning/making
  mechanisms. Project was a gift for his wife.

* Project started with sketching. Had a bunch of mechanical items he
  could make (gears/cams/piston rods/etc), and he started by looking
  through these things and thought "what can I do with them". He
  didn't start with an idea of what he wanted. Instead he used the
  mechanisms as an inspiration. 

* Spent a night (3--4 hours) sketching ideas. Final result was
  actually quite good, especially so since it was his first mechanism
  project.

* Started Illustrator around 10:00, done around 30:00 (total ~20:00).

  - set initial scale using centimeters.

  - making guides to help place things at the right spots

  - making circles/rectangles

  - using arrow keys and remembering how many times they are pressed
    so related movements can be done the same amount. this is a
    strategy for measurement (of sorts).

  - rather than creating paths like interview 2 he will make opaque
    white objects to cover up lines he doesn't want. This was his main
    way handling unwanted lines. This works because the laser cutter
    works using colors. Later he says "don't tell anybody I did this"
    and was a bit embarrassed that this was his process.

  - using ^Z to back up many many steps after realizing something was
    wrong (circle was half the size).

  - using group/ungroup commands

  - did not use pathfinder at all

  - made a rectangle measuring box just like interview 2.

  - aligns things by zooming in and eyeballing it. Illustrator is not
    giving hints or snapping (for some reason). "Don't tell anyone" he
    says, again.

  - because he was zoomed in he put something in the wrong spot. Used
    ^Z a bunch of times to back up and get the measuring rectangle to
    align the notch.

  - the opaque white boxes give him some trouble because he moves
    boundary lines in such a way that they become covered.

  - he realizes he can use pathfinder to fix the boundary line
    obscured problem, but doesn't pursue that option very far. just
    moves the opaque things around.

