Intro:

Sketch It, Make It, or SIMI, is a sketch-based tool that lets people design
items for laser cutting.

SIMI takes rough, hand drawn input and recognizes it. Some input is
turned into linework, like straight lines, elliptical arcs, or
freeform splines. I tell SIMI to recognize what I've done by pressing
a button with my non-dominant hand.

The system can also recognize input as commands. I can make the corner
of this triangle be a right angle by drawing half-square symbol
nearby. I can also make these two sides be the same length using this
hash gesture. No matter how I deform the triangle, SIMI will always
try to keep these two rules intact.

Some commands are activated right away so I don't need to press the
button. I can make a little circle here to latch these linestogether
at their ends. And erasing works right away too, so I can erase
structured or unstructured ink.

I can also make reference points by making a fat dot. When there's
just one point, it shows me a circle centered at the guide point, and
a straight line. And these just follow the pen around. I can use this
to put lines just where I want them. If I have two reference points it
gives me circles based on these two points, a straight edge, and also
this perpendicular bisector. So I can easily find the midpoint of two
points. If I have three fat dots it forms a circle. Drawing
approximately over this guide lets me make circular arcs.

I can change freeform curves using flow selection. I just press the
pen down near a spline and hold it for a while to heat it up, and then  
move the pen without lifting up. I can also manipulate curves by
 moving their endpoints around. And this is just an affine
transformation of the curve.

So here's a longer example that shows everything in a single design
session. I'm going to try to replicate this picture frame holder part
that looks like this.

I'll start by drawing some of the basic geometry. I hit the button and
it recognizes syntax. Straight lines are green, the elliptical arc
here is magenta, and the spline is in cyan.

SIMI automatically joined together these lines, but it didn't have
enough confidence that these segments should join up. I can fix this
by manually latching them by drawing a little circle around them like
that. 

Now I'll add the bottom part, and it sees that I've finished the path
all the way around, so it sees this as a complete stencil and fills it
in using a darker color. I could send this to the laser cutter at this
point.

But I'm not done quite yet, because I know that the picture frame has
to slide in to this slot right here, so I have a little more to do. I
can add right angles to match the shape of the frame. And the bottom
should be just big enough to accept the picture frame, so I'll select
this line and change its length to 1.2 centimeters. And it moves
things around so all the constraints are satisfied.

I'm going to change this shape on the left to make it curvier. I'll
use flow selection on this in a couple spots. Notice that the
constraints over here still hold.

Next, I'm going to replace this elliptical arc over here with part of
a circle. I'll just erase the ellipse, and add some reference points
to give me the circular guide. I want a guide that passes through the
top and bottom and this third point out here.

It looks a little lopsided to me right now, so I'm going to play
around a bit. I can select points by drawing fat dots on them, and
then drag them somewhere. And I can deselect that point by circling
it. I'll do something similar on the other side. And the spline keeps
its general shape all this time.

Last, I'll make sure the sides of the slot are big enough, so I'll
tell them to be specific sizes. I can move the bottom around to adjust
the angle, since I want the picture frame to sit at an angle.

  So I'm basically done now. All I have to do is select it, and drag it
off to my laser cutter.
